latex2rtf(1)                                         latex2rtf(1)



NAME
       latex2rtf - Convert a LaTeX file to an RTF file

SYNTAX
       latex2rtf  [-hlpFSV]  [  -d# ] [ -M# ] [ -a auxfile ] [ -b
       bblfile ] [ -C codepage ] [ -D dots_per_inch ] [  -i  lan-
       guage  ] [ -o outputfile ] [ -P /path/to/cfg ] [ inputfile
       ]


DESCRIPTION
       The latex2rtf command converts a LaTeX file into RTF  text
       format. The text and much of the formatting information is
       translated to RTF.

       -a auxfile
              Used  to  specify  a  particular  cross-referencing
              file.   When this option is omitted, the auxfile is
              assumed to be the same as inputfile with  the  .tex
              suffix replaced by .aux.

       -b bblfile
              Used to specify a particular bibliography file When
              this option is omitted, the bblfile is  assumed  to
              be  the  same  as  inputfile  with  the .tex suffix
              replaced by .bbl.

       -C codepage
              used to specify the character set (code page)  used
              in  the  LaTeX  document  for  non-ansi characters.
              codepage may be  one  of  the  following:  ansinew,
              applemac,  cp437,  cp437de,  cp850,  cp852,  cp855,
              cp865, cp866,  decmulti,  cp1250,  cp1252,  koi8-r,
              koi8-u,  latin1,  latin2,  latin3,  latin4, latin5,
              latin9, maccyr, macukr, next, raw, raw437,  raw852,
              raw1250,  raw1251, and raw1253.  The default behav-
              ior is to use ansinew (same as cp1252).  For conve-
              nience, just the numbers 437, 437de, 850, 852, 855,
              866, 1250 or 1252 may be specified.

              The raw character set encoding prevents  any  8-bit
              character  translation.   The RTF file is marked to
              use the same encoding as the default  encoding  for
              the  program  interpreting  the  RTF file.  This is
              particularly useful when translating a file written
              in  a  language (e.g., czech) that maps poorly into
              the ansinew (western european) character set.


       -d#    Write extra debugging  output  to  stderr.   Higher
              numbers  cause more debugging output and range from
              0 (only errors) to 6 (absurdly many messages).  The
              default is 1 (Warnings and Errors only).

       -D dots_per_inch
              Used  to  specify  the  number  of dots per inch in
              equations that are converted  to  bitmaps  and  for
              graphics  that  must  be converted.  Default is 300
              dpi.

       -F     use LaTeX to create bitmaps for all figures.   This
              may  help when figures are not translated properly.

       -h     Print a short usage note

       -i language
              used to set the idiom or language used in the LaTeX
              document  language  may  be  one  of  the following
              afrikaans, bahasa, basque, brazil, breton, catalan,
              croatian, czech, danish, dutch, english, esperanto,
              estonian, finnish, french, galician,  german,  ice-
              landic,  irish,italian,  latin,  lsorbian,  magyar,
              norsk, nynorsk, polish,  portuges,  romanian,  rus-
              sian,  samin,  scottish,  serbian, slovak, slovene,
              spanish, swedish, turkish,  usorbian,  welsh.   The
              default is english.

       -l     Assume  LaTeX source uses ISO 8859-1 (Latin-1) spe-
              cial characters (default behavior).

       -o outputfile
              Redirect output to outputfile Unless an  outputfile
              is  specified with the -o option, the resulting RTF
              is produced in a file with .tex replaced by .rtf.

       -M#    where # selects the type  of  equation  conversion.
              -M3  is  the  default  and converts both inline and
              displayed equations to RTF.   -M6  converts  inline
              equations   to   RTF  and  displayed  equations  to
              bitmaps. -M12 converts inline and  displayed  equa-
              tions  to  bitmaps.   Bitmap  conversion requires a
              working latex2png  script.   Producing  bitmaps  is
              slow.

       -p     do  not  quote  printed parentheses in mathematical
              formulas, as some versions of Word (e.g Word  2000)
              have  deep  psychological  problems  with EQ fields
              using quoted parentheses.  If  Word  displays  some
              formulas  with  parentheses  as  'Error!', try this
              option.  See also the -S option.

       -P /path/to/cfg
              used to specify the  directory  that  contains  the
              @code{.cfg} files

       -S     Use semicolons to separate arguments in RTF fields.
              This is needed when the  machine  opening  the  RTF
              file  has  a  version  of Word that uses commas for
              decimal points.  This also can fix displaying  some
              formulas  as 'Error!'  You may also need to try the
              -p option.

       -V     Prints version on standard output and exits.

       -W     Emit warnings directly  in  RTF  file.   Handy  for
              catching  things  that  do  not get translated cor-
              rectly.

       -Z#    Add # close braces to end of RTF file.  (Handy when
              file  is  not converted correctly and will not open
              in another word processor.)

CONFIGURATION FILES
       The configuration files are searched first in  any  direc-
       tory  specified  by  -P, then in the location specified by
       the environment variable RTFPATH, and finally in the loca-
       tion CFGDIR specified when latex2rtf was compiled.  If the
       configuration files are not found then  latex2rtf  aborts.
       The  configuration files allow additional fonts to be rec-
       ognized, additional simple commands to be translation, and
       additional commands to be ignored.

CAUTION
       The  input  file  must be a valid LaTeX file. Use LaTeX to
       find and fix errors before converting with latex2rtf.

       The configuration files direct.cfg and  fonts.cfg  are  in
       the  correct  directory.  You may have to change fonts.cfg
       or direct.cfg to suit your needs.

BUGS
       Some might consider RTF to be a bug.

       Some environments are currently ignored.

       Translation without a LaTeX generated .aux file is poor.

REPORTING BUGS
       Report  bugs  to   to   the   bug   tracking   system   at
       http://sourceforge.net/projects/latex2rtf/.   Only  report
       bugs for the latest version of latex2rtf  that  is  avail-
       able.  Please identify your operating system.


       If  the program produces wrong output or does not work for
       you, INCLUDE A SHORT  LATEX  FILE  that  demonstrates  the
       problem.  The shorter the LaTeX file, the quicker your bug
       will get addressed.  Bug reports with  non-existent  LaTeX
       files  are  not welcomed by the developers.  Do not bother
       to send RTF files, since these are usually unhelpful.

SEE ALSO
       latex(1), rtf2LaTeX2e(1), LaTeX User's Guide  &  Reference
       Manual by Leslie Lamport

       For  complete,  current  documentation,  refer to the Info
       file latex2rtf.info, the PDF  file  latex2rtf.pdf  or  the
       HTML  file  latex2rtf.html which are made from the TeXInfo
       source file latex2rtf.texi.




                                                     latex2rtf(1)
